ATMEGA328
The superior Atmel 8-bit AVR RISC-based microcontroller consolidates 32KB
ISP flash memory with read-while-compose capacities, 1KB EEPROM, 2KB
SRAM, 23 universally useful I/O lines, 32 broadly useful working registers,
three adaptable timer with analyze modes, inner and outer interrupts, serial
programmable USART, a byte-arranged 2-wire serial interface, SPI serial port,
6-channel 10-bit A/D converter (8-diverts in TQFP and QFN/MLF bundles),
programmable guard dog timer with interior oscillator, and five product
selectable power sparing modes. The gadget works between 1.8-5.5 volts.

ARDUINO
Arduino is an instrument for appearing well and good and control a greater
amount of the physical world than your desktop PC. It's an open-source physical
preparing platform in perspective of an essential microcontroller board, and a
change circumstance for creating programming for the board. Arduino can be
used to make savvy articles, taking inputs from a blended sack of switches or
sensors, and controlling a mixture of lights, motors, and other physical yields.
Arduino endeavors can be stay single, or they can relate with programming
running on your PC. The Arduino Uno is a microcontroller board in light of the
ATmega328 (datasheet). It has 14 advanced information/yield pins (of which 6
can be utilized as PWM yields), 6 simple inputs, a 16 MHz gem oscillator, a USB
association, a force jack, an ICSP header, and reset catch. It contains everything
expected to backing the microcontroller; essentially interface it to PC with a USB
link or force it with an AC-to-DC connector or battery to begin. The Uno varies
from all going before sheets in that it doesn't utilize the FTDI USB-to-serial driver
chip. Rather, it includes the Atmega8U2 customized as a USB-to-serial converter.
"Uno" signifies "One" in Italian and is named to check the forthcoming arrival of
Arduino 1.0. The Uno and variant 1.0 will be the reference variants of Arduino,
getting up and go. The Uno is the most recent in a progression of USB Arduino
sheets, and the reference model for the Arduino platform; for an examination
with past variants, see the record of Arduino sheets.

Technical Specifications

Microcontroller ATmega328
Operating Voltage 5V
Supply Voltage (recommended) 7-12V
Maximum supply voltage (not recommended) 20V
Digital I/O Pins 14 (6 are PWM output)
Analog Input Pins 6
DC Current per I/O Pin 40 mA
DC Current for 3.3V Pin 50 mA
Flash Memory 32 KB (ATmega328) of which 0.5 KB used by bootloader
SRAM 2 KB (ATmega328)
EEPROM 1 KB (ATmega328)
Clock Speed 16 MHz
